[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Subtle energies all
go faster than light.
Now, when you--
I'll ask you to visualize
a reaction equation
as if you've got a
blackboard in front of you.
And I'll write mass with arrows
back and forth to energy.
That is basically what we've
done for the last 400 years
in orthodox science.
And the connection link is
Einstein's E equals MC squared.
Well, now we want to
expand traditional science
to include human consciousness.
Our experiments show that works
now in this world we live in.
But we don't all agree
what consciousness is.
So let's not ask what
consciousness is, let's ask
what consciousness does.
>> Astronaut Edgar Mitchell
found that consciousness has
a better quality
signal in space.
Scientific studies seem to
confirm that consciousness
travels instantaneously
over any distance,
at least it appears that way
over the known Earth-to-Sun
to Sun maximum distances
measured thus far.
Dr. William Tiller calculates
that due to the fact that
consciousness cannot be
blocked by any barrier--
including lead and
mountains of rock,
which are capable of blocking
the highest frequency gamma
rays--
consciousness must be of a
higher frequency than the gamma
ray spectrum to allow it to
penetrate these barriers.
Also, in order for
consciousness to appear
to travel instantaneously
over Earth-to-Sun distances,
it would have to at
least travel at the speed
of light squared, which is
34.7 billion miles per second.
>> Oh, the theory is that
they all travel faster than
the velocity of
light, and that's why
they're non-observable.
And the magnetoelectric energy--
its top velocity from my
theory is that it's c squared.
So it goes from c to c squared.
>> Dr. Tiller's new model
of consciousness has
multi-dimensions.
It starts with
the second chakra,
being capable of
sending consciousness
as coherent information
at a frequency
beyond the gamma ray spectrum
in the magnetoelectric spectrum
with wavelengths so
tiny and frequencies
so high they could penetrate
any subatomic barrier.
This level of consciousness
can send coherent information
at the speed of light
squared, or 34.7 billion miles
per second.
Since the Sun is approximately
93 million miles from Earth,
consciousness would appear
to travel from the Sun
to the Earth in a tiny
fraction of a second--
1/373.
>> Whereas if you go
to the next level,
the emotional domain level, it's
sort of c squared to c cubed.
>> Dr. Tiller's second
level of consciousness,
emanating from the heart center,
allows coherent information
to travel at the
speed of light cubed,
or 64.64 quadrillion
miles per second.
This is a level of
cosmic proportions.
As the speed of light travels
5.87 trillion miles per year
and the Pleiades star system
is 440 light years away
from Earth, or 2.58
quadrillion miles,
it would take ordinary light
or radio messages 440 years
to get there.
But consciousness at this
level of realization,
traveling 64.64 quadrillion
miles per second,
could travel to 2.58 quadrillion
miles to the Pleiades star
system in 1/4 of a second.
>> If you go to the mind
level, it's c cubed to c
to the fourth.
>> Dr. Tiller's next
level of consciousness,
emanating from the
crown chakra and higher,
allows coherent information to
travel to the Andromeda Galaxy,
2.5 million light
years from Earth,
in a fraction of a second.
At this level of
realization, we attain
ultra cosmic consciousness.
This means at these higher
levels of realization
we can create a dialogue
with other galaxies.
The answer to how we
can attain coherency,
total perfect harmonic
consciousness,
in each of our energy centers
is inside of our biology.
>> Very interesting fact in
biology is that no two human
beings are the same.
And I can say that from a
biological expression in regard
to a simple observation.
If you take cells or
organs out of your body
and put them into
anybody else's body,
those cells and organs will
be rejected by that individual
because their immune system
will recognize it is not self.
So basically, it says
each one of us has a self.
And what was very
interesting in understanding
the nature of the
cell's nervous system,
the relationship of the
membrane to the cell,
was that on the
surface of our cells
are groups of
antennas or receptors.
A group of them specifically
studied by medicine
are referred to
as self-receptors.
To me, that's a
very profound title
for these particular receptors--
self-receptors, receivers
of self.
So why this is relevant
is that these receptors
that receive an identity are
on the outer surface of a cell.
The relevance to that is that
whatever the self-signal is,
it is out in the environment and
picked up by these receptors.
Significance to my
perception in this
is that our identities are
not within our biology.
Our identities are
part of a field
and that our biology
downloads this information
from the field.
So the significance
is that when we
talk about our
personal identity,
we can talk about that
identity isolated and localized
with our physical
body, but we could also
talk about the same
information or identity that
is present in the field.
So for example, Cleve Backster
did some wonderful experiments
where he took cells
from an individual,
put them in a culture dish,
and separated those cells
from that individual by a
distance of 40 or more miles.
And what he had
was an experiment
where he put electrical devices
to read the electrical activity
of the cells in a culture dish.
At the same time, he was reading
the electrical activity--
for example, the EEG activity--
of the donor of those cells
who was 40 miles away.
What he recognized is
that if the individual had
an emotional experience
at that moment,
the individual cells
would also have
an identical kind of activity
occur instantaneously
at the same time, even though
they were 40 miles away.
The relevance about
this is really
very supportive of the fact
that the identity is not
localized within the body.
The identity is
part of the field
and spread all over the
surface of the planet.
Significance is
this-- is that when
two people have two physical
bodies and they can interact,
but they'll also have two
environmental identifications,
meaning some kind of
energy in the field that
is unique to them.
Since the field is all
entangled and integrated
with each other
all over the world,
that means people
are never really
separated from each other by
physical distances in regard
to their personal identity,
even though their bodies may
be separated.
So basically, the nature
of people communicating
with each other is to recognize
that individual identities
as vibrational
frequencies in a field
can interact with
each other, especially
if there is something
called harmonic resonance,
meaning the two frequencies
share wavelengths together
so that when they come
together, they vibrate together.
And this is how
people can actually
feel other people that are
closely related to them,
because they can
pick up the vibration
of the other individual
in that there
is a complementarity
between them
and the person they're
communicating with.
So the significance is
we have an opportunity
to interact on a
nonphysical plane
through the identity
that is in the field.
And this is very important
because it is not
localized to space or time,
that people can communicate over
vast differences on
this planet at exactly
the same moment of time.
>> In our current science,
there are four basic forces--
electromagnetism,
gravity, and the strong
and the weak forces which
occur in the nucleus and they
hold the nucleus
and atoms together.
And in our physics
research, we've
been learning how to unify
these forces to some extent,
and there's now a
standard model that
has a way of putting together
three of them to some extent.
But in current physics,
there's an attitude
that this pretty much
explains everything you
need to know in the universe.
Unfortunately, that idea
is based on the fact
that our knowledge of physics
comes from high-energy particle
experiments.
Scientists take
elementary particles
and bang them
together at high speed
and they watch what
happens, and they say, well,
that's the universe.
OK.
That's what we have to explain.
And our current model
does a pretty good job
of explaining that.
What they've overlooked are
a lot of other phenomena
that they don't tend to study.
And if you take the
example I mentioned of ESP
are psychic connections,
that's one area which
says that there are forces
and ways of interacting
that can't be explained
by that four-force model.
>> When scientists measure the
capabilities of subtle energy
or the psychic force, it
outperforms all of the other
forces.
Today, we store and
transmit information
through radio and
television waves.
This kind of information is
likened to human consciousness,
but it doesn't possess
all of its qualities.
Consciousness is still
unique and more powerful.
Radio waves and
microwaves are used
to broadcast voices
and television
pictures at the speed of light.
The problem is these
electromagnetic signals
get weaker over distance
and can distort or collapse
when trying to move through
solid barriers such as walls,
metal, or even mountains.
After conducting
hundreds of tests,
scientists have discovered
that subtle energy,
the psychic force, is capable
of penetrating any dimension,
barrier, or distance with
no loss in signal quality,
even through vast
distances in space.
>> The Princeton PEAR Lab
experiments have also shown
that people's minds have
the ability to affect things
at a distance.
They take a device called a
random event generator, which
makes a sequence of random
ones and zeros or yeses in nos
based on a quantum circuit.
What they have shown
is that the mind
can affect how that
object behaves,
what the stream of ones
and zeros looks like,
and it does not
depend how far away
you are from the person
influencing the experiment.
Even thousands of
miles away, a person
is able to affect the
results just as well.
So we have an ability to exert
a force on distant objects that
does not fall into any of
the known category of forces.
This new force goes through
barriers that would normally
stop the known forces.
It even acts backwards
in time in certain types
of experiments.
This new force-- the Russians
have called torsion--
is known by a variety
of different names.
It may be the same thing
as what the Chinese call
qi, the essence of
Chinese medicine.
It appears to affect
space and time.
And by doing so, it affects
all the other forces,
and it really calls for a
new reexamination of physics.
Bill Tiller has called
this raising the gauge.
>> Dr. William Tiller has
conducted hundreds of tests
proving that human consciousness
or intention can affect the pH
value of water over any
distance and through any barrier
or dimension.
>> Let's start with the unstated
assumption that's been existing
in science for 400 years
since the days of Descartes,
and that is that no human
qualities of consciousness,
intention, emotion, mind,
or spirit can significantly
influence a well-designed target
experiment in physical reality.
And so in '97, I set out to
seriously test that assumption,
having received some important
funding from a private source.
And so the idea was to design
for target experiments,
set them up with all
kinds of controls
you would have in any normal
orthodox science experiment,
and to then introduce
consciousness
into the experimental medium.
The four experiments were to--
the intention was to
increase the pH of water
by one full pH unit with
no chemical additions,
and the water was in
equilibrium with air.
The second target
experiment was to decrease
the pH of the same water by
one pH unit with no chemical
additions and again an
equilibrium with air.
And in both cases, the accuracy
of the measurement instruments
were plus or minus
0.01 pH units.
So we were asking
for a signature,
which was the order of
100 times the noise.
>> First, Dr. Tiller did
experiments applying direct
human intention to water
and got positive results.
He then was able to
capture a human intention
as if in a computer hard drive
and a bioelectrical intention
host device with
the instructions
to raise or lower the
pH value in water.
Regardless of distance,
repeatedly, the intention
was able to affect
the pH value in water.
>> Within three weeks, the
pH had gone up one pH unit.
And then three months later,
the Milan folks weighed in.
And we said the
same thing to them--
to be part of the
experiment, we wanted them
to just measure background.
And we used it as a control
site for, again, the three
active sites, and
within one week,
the pH went up 1.7 pH units.
When we looked at
our data, we found
in one of the control
sites in Missouri--
it was underground--
and there the pH
had gone up 1.7 pH units.
So what we gathered--
not only was there
information entanglement
over as much as 6,000 miles,
but that if the measurement
site was below ground,
the pH went up more
than 1 pH unit.
If it was three
stories up in the air,
as it was in Bethesda
in Baltimore,
it only went up 0.8 pH units.
But if it was at
ground level, it
went up 1 pH unit, which
was the level where we first
made the imprint intention
in their devices.
>> Another amazing quality the
psychic force exhibits is no
distortion between
sender and receiver.
That means the lines of
communication remain private.
>> I'm Gary Schwartz, and
I'm currently a professor
of psychology medicine,
neurology, psychiatry,
and surgery at the University
of Arizona where I direct
a laboratory for advances
in consciousness and health.
And I direct a team
of people doing
research that essentially
integrates body, mind,
and spirit.
We've been doing
a lot of research
in the area of energy
healing and consciousness
that involves energy and
also extends beyond us--
so when one person's
consciousness and energy
can affect the physiology,
biochemistry, cellular
function, and conscious
experience of someone else,
either locally, in a
close proximity, or even
hundreds or thousands
of miles away.
And that's summarized
in my new book,
"The Energy Healing
Experiments."
Well, we've done many
kinds of experiments
to look at both local and
non-local or distal effects
of intention on healing.
One area of research involved
was called biophoton imaging
where we literally, using
a supercooled camera--
it's cooled anywhere
from minus 70
to minus 100 degrees centigrade.
These cameras were originally
designed to look out into deep
space to photograph galaxies we
cannot see with the naked eye.
Well, we began to
wonder if we could
use these cameras to actually
image living systems.
So instead of looking
out into space,
we're looking at biology.
And we began
working with plants.
And one of the many reasons
for working with plants,
besides they're fundamental to
life and they relate to light
and we are very
much part of the--
and connect with
the plant community,
but plants are also
very easy to work
with because they can sit in the
dark for long periods of time,
they sit still, and
so therefore you
can get very good images of
the light that the plants emit.
And what we found is that not
only can we measure the light
that's coming out of the plants,
which you cannot see with
the naked eye, but we can
measure auras that are actually
surrounding the plant.
So you can see the light that's
going on around the plants.
Then we can actually see how
the plants interact with light.
So for example, if you have
two geranium leaves, one
next to the other, and
you take a long exposure,
you can actually see the
extension of the light.
And it's like lightning
grabbing one another
and caressing one another.
You actually see the light beams
connecting the two, which again
has never before been seen.
Now you can take healers,
and healers can, for example,
send healing
intentions to a leaf,
or they can speak
specifically as to say,
can you enable the
leaf to glow more?
And we could actually
show that people
who are trained as
healers can actually,
without touching the leaves,
with their intention,
send an intention for the leaves
to spontaneously glow more,
and then we can place
them in this completely
dark chamber where these
images are obtained,
and low and behold discover
that the leaves are glowing.
Now, you take that
one step further,
and you can say, well, what
about people from a distance?
Could people do
this 10 miles away?
Could they do this 100 miles
away or even 1,000 miles away?
And with Lynn McTaggart, who
wrote the book "The Field"
and has written a new
book called "The Intention
Experiment," we've been doing
long-distance experiments
where, for example, a group
of 400 people in England
will, together as a
group, for 10 minutes
send an intention
to a leaf in Tucson
in my laboratory to glow.
And we'll have two leaves.
We'll call them leaf a and b.
Each leaf has been injured.
It's been-- little holes
have been placed in it,
16 of them in a
four-by-four grid,
because when you injure a
leaf, it actually glows more,
because when there's
injury, there's actually--
the healing response
involves energy.
And then what we do is we
have two video cameras, cam
recorders, picking up the
images of each of the leaves
and then sending by the
internet to England.
Now, someone in the
audience flips a coin
and it comes out
randomly heads or tails.
And let's say they pick leaf b.
At this point, the image from
Tucson sent to London of leaf b
is now on the screen.
And now 400 people
can simultaneously
send glowing intentions
to the leaf that they see.
Meanwhile, my research
assistant in Tuscon, Mark,
he's blind to which
leaf has been selected.
After the 10 minutes, Mark is
then asked to take the leaves
and put them into the
biophoton imaging system
so we can collect these
long-exposure images
of the leaves, and
then they're blindly
scored before we break the
code to find out what happens.
And much to my absolute
amazement, sure enough,
if leaf b was selected
from a distant group
and they could
actually see the leaf,
they're able to affect
the glowing of that leaf
compared to a matched control.
>> German physicist Fritz-Albert
Popp proved the existence
of biophotons, that all living
organisms, including humans,
had auras that transmitted and
received intelligent signals.
He also found that
plants communicate
at a distance with one
another by their transmissions
and receptions of biophotons.
This digital photograph
of a giant palm tree
shows something
extraordinary that appeared
invisible to the naked eye--
a 2 to 3-foot wide
orb of plasma white.
It even has a green
plasma membrane,
kind of like a giant cell.
Are plants in communication
with invisible beings of light?
Could we be in communication
through Einstein's action
at a distance with
our future soul
matches as friends, loves,
husbands, wives, teachers,
business partners,
and spiritual mentors
before we meet in person
for the first time?
Could this communication
be happening
based on our current
thoughts, feelings, patterns,
and our personal
energy signature?
>> Creating a dialogue with your
soulmate before you meet them
is very important because a
lot of us may feel that maybe
our soulmate isn't
really out there,
and so in the back of your
mind, you hope for it,
but it's not active in
your day-to-day life.
And it's important to
put those messages out,
that that is what
you're looking for.
You're not going to
settle for anything else.
When you clear your
space, and you're
totally open to
receive your soulmate,
and when you do your soul
work on a daily basis,
and you put the
feeling tone of finding
your soulmate in that space--
all of those things are
essential to communicating
with your soulmate before
you actually meet them.
You have to believe that
your soulmate can hear you
because if you don't believe
it and you're just saying,
oh, I'm going to put
out this message--
if you're actually there
or not, I don't know,
but I'll just say that I'm
ready and you'll hear me--
it doesn't work that way.
You have to truly believe that
they can hear you and send
a clear message to them in order
for the line of communication
to meet them instantly
because that is not only
a leap of faith, but it
also creates a clear signal
so that nothing, no
doubts, no resistance,
are interfering
with that signal.
If you have a doubt,
an interference,
through that not
being sure, then it
won't be an instant message.
It will come to a stop
sign at some point.
So it's really important to
have faith and true belief
that your soulmate can hear
you when you're sending out
those feeling tones and
those messages of I'm
ready for you and mirroring
that in your actions
in your day-to-day basis.
>> Dr. Bruce Lipton has
made a remarkable discovery
by observing how biological
cells can be in communication
with one another at a distance.
>> There's an interesting
understanding in biology about
how one can separate proteins
in a mixture which contains
thousands of different proteins.
And basically how
it works is you
take a drop of this
mixture of thousands
of different proteins, you
put it on a surface of a gel,
and what you do is run
on electric current
through this gel surface.
And what happens is,
because each protein has
its own unique vibrational
frequency and mass to it,
each protein
responds to the field
with its own unique
characteristics.
So as a result of putting
the proteins in a field,
it causes the proteins
to move in that field.
Some proteins move faster
than other proteins,
so the net result is that
the proteins actually
begin to sort themselves
out on a Petri dish.
And ultimately, if you
continue doing this,
you can identify
individual clusters
of proteins that share common
characteristics because they
will move at the same
rate of speed on this gel.
We apply this to an
understanding of humans
as protein mechanisms.
Each one of us has our own
unique identifying frequency
to it.
Each one of us on the
surface of the Earth
is like a protein on the gel.
Interestingly enough, the
field forces around us,
the invisible forces, influence
our movement on the surface.
So during our lives, we
move across the surface
of the planet from
one place to another,
and ultimately, if we share
vibrational frequencies
with other people, it's
inevitable that at some point
we will ultimately cross
paths just as proteins
do in what is called
chromatography or gel
electrophoresis.
So basically, it's a very
interesting understanding
that we will ultimately meet
up, if we continue our movement,
with people that share our
vibrational frequencies.
And there are very
exciting opportunities
when we do because at that
moment, when you start
to encounter the person that
has a complementary frequency
to you, the harmonic
resonance actually
empowers your own vibration.
We call it "good vibes."
And in that regard,
you can actually
identify people that
are in some way related
to you and your harmonics
because if their vibration is
similar to you, the two
of them coming together
is called constructive
interference, which empowers
each of the individuals,
and that empowerment
is physically felt as much
more energy in your body.
And we refer to this, as I
mentioned, as "good vibes,"
so that we actually have a
sensory system, an awareness,
of when people that
are very similar to us,
or supportive of complementary
to us, come into our field.
I should also
acknowledge that there
are other people who
actually cancel our energies
just as well--
that's called destructive
interference--
so that when some
people come together,
they actually lose
energy and feel weaker.
And we refer to
that as "bad vibes."
So the nature of
our communications
are there is a vibrational
communication that precedes
our verbal communication.
>> As we realize we are
communicating in the present
moment with our future soul
matches, business partners,
mentors, spiritual teachers,
and even God at a distance,
we can understand how to
co-create our own reality.
>> Once we understand the
concept that we are constantly
broadcasting our personal
energy signature into the field
and we're also receiving
messages from the field,
we can see how we can focus
and actually attract not only
our soulmates and soul matches,
but our future business
partners, and actually creating
a future career for ourselves
that is more harmonious
to who we really are.
We can also see how
we can use the field
to attract our
spiritual teachers.
We want to find teachers
that resonate with where
we want to go with
our spirituality,
regardless of our religion, but
also how we can use the field
to create a dialogue
with the universe itself.
So whether we're an architect,
an astronomer, a biologist,
a medical doctor, a musician,
an artist, or even a student,
by creating this dialogue with
these super intelligent levels
of the field and expanding
our consciousness ultimately
into the nine levels
of the cosmos, the nine
levels of the angelic, the
nine levels of the field,
we can get the answers to
anything we can imagine--
the cure for AIDS, the cure for
biofuels, the next biofuels.
We can find the secrets
to nuclear fusion.
We can find the secrets to
unlimited zero-point energy.
We can find the secrets
to the next song,
the next generation of music.
All of that information is
available to us in this field
if we can tap into it.
>> We can even begin to
formulate a dialogue to awaken
our own inner genius
and true potential.
One of the ways that
we can access and train
a more quantum, broader field
range of awareness, a more
expansive state of awareness, is
to begin to encourage ourselves
to see things not so much in
terms of concepts and ideas,
but more in terms of
pure energy itself,
so that you begin to
perceive what is normally
you would label it and you'd
say, wow, that's a rose
or that's a car
or that's a tree--
you would just begin to teach
yourself, guide yourself,
into feeling the pure
energy of that experience
as though you are in a
state of innocent wonder.
>> And then-- so what this does
is that it frees your whole
cortical field.
It's like, just because
you detach yourself
from looking at the world
in terms of ideas doesn't
mean you lose those ideas.
What it does is it helps you to
free your informational field
up so when now, when
you encourage yourself
to go into really deep states of
peaceful, peaceful quiet, core
being relaxation quiet, when you
learn to penetrate to the very
core essence of
the quantum field
itself, what you start to
feel is an incredible harmonic
peacefulness.
So we have a meditation
which encourages
you to enter into that state
of pure, unattached to ideas,
pure energy awareness, complete
peaceful, brilliant stillness.
And as you enter
that, what we now
know from studies
of creative genius,
that it's often exactly when
we're in the most relaxed,
most sort of open-minded
spaces, that we begin our brain
process because it's now free.
It's suddenly like the
electrical circuitry
is no longer confined to
our old thought spaces.
So when our cortex can suddenly
flash up with something
like akin to a super
light, like the light
of our awareness
within our awareness
fields can suddenly flash
into our whole brain
field in a much more
core contextual way,
and we start to holographically
insight instead of think.
We start to get picture images.
We start to see
potential solutions that
are way more holographic.
For a description
of the difference
between holographing
and thinking,
if you were to think of,
say, a round basketball,
and if you were to
take a 1-diameter slice
of that basketball in
an attempt to understand
a whole field of information,
what you'd end up
is with two polarized opposites.
You would have,
like, an either/or,
or a right or a left position,
or a good or a bad position.
And you'd have an argument
because you've polarized
the informational field.
And you tend to look at that
informational field in terms
of being somewhere
along that band--
I'm in the center, I'm on
the right, I'm on the left--
whereas when we insight, if you
could picture that same ball,
guess how many diameters
there are inside
of a whole field of information.
There is an infinite
number of diameters
that you can put
through a whole field.
So the difference between
thinking and insighting
is when you let the core of that
circle of information, which
is your brain field,
you allow the energy
to expand in every
direction simultaneously
from the core to the boundaries,
you get an instantaneous flash
of insight.
You get a hologram.
Suddenly you see solutions
in terms of huge, like, wow.
And this is exactly
how Einstein insighted
the theory of relativity.
It came to him in an instant.
It took him two years
to try to explain
what he saw in that instant
through conventional linear
sequential logics.
So what we're talking
about is teaching
people, opening people to
a new level of awareness
in which they begin to support
their intelligence field,
to jump into quantum
field holographing
as opposed to thinking.
>> If we awaken to the idea
that the universe itself is
intelligent, could we
create a dialogue with it?
What is the universal language?
How can we learn to listen
to the cosmic conversation?
Many scientific studies at top
universities around the world
have confirmed that
consciousness can
affect the structure of water.
Water has been
demonstrated to have memory
in numerous studies, that
our thoughts and feelings can
be recorded by water.
As water is made of two parts
hydrogen and one part oxygen,
we can deduct that
hydrogen has memory.
Our bodies are
made of nearly 90%
water, trace
minerals, and oxygen.
Our Sun is also made of the
same stuff we are made of--
91% hydrogen, helium, trace
oxygen, and trace minerals.
Hydrogen was created
less than 100 seconds
after the Big Bang, the
creation of the universe,
and established itself as
the most abundant element
in the entire universe.
The massive spiral arms
of the Milky Way galaxy
is hundreds of billions of stars
and planets are made mostly
of hydrogen. 75% of the
visible mass of our galaxy
is made of hydrogen.
While hydrogen has
memory, could our galaxy's
spiral arms, the
Sun, and the billions
of stars in the Milky
Way galaxy actually hold
all of the cosmic memories
of its entire history?
Could this be where the great
akashic records, archiving
all of human history, are held?
What if we could
create a dialogue
with this enormous
memory system?
We could know the
answer to any question
and solve any problem
or any limitation.
>> The language that
the spiritual people--
and spiritual people
meaning the medicine
people, the different religious
groups within the Zuni tribe--
when they go into a religious
communication system,
they talk about
the origins of who
they are talking to in a
lot of cases, especially
in the medicine
world, is that they're
talking about the star people.
And all the other
related priests,
they call them priesthood.
In one-- for example, in one
section of the prayer system,
there's a specific
line or a phrase
or a group within a
prayer that talks strictly
about the night beings
and the upper world
priesthood, they call it.
That's the only one
that is referenced
as a male and female entity
and the star of the sky
people, the night people
priesthood, and the finish line
in that is that they only
appear instantaneously.
That's one line in
the prayer system.
There are so many different
parts to the prayer system,
depending on the specialty of
that particular medicine group.
>> Is there a language of
the universe, a language,
if uttered with perfection, the
secret forces of the universe
could be activated?
When we examine some of
the most ancient languages
in the history of the world--
such as ancient Hebrew,
the Vedas, Aramaic,
and the Native American
Indian dialects--
we find that these
prayers were designed
to invoke spiritual
healing and powerful forces
of the conscious universe.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
What I mean by that is
that during the night time,
the night priesthood,
including the female--
they come-- and also I'm
talking about the priesthood
of the universe--
they only come and show
themself instantaneously
is what that passage means when
you're doing it in prayers.
When we communicate,
then, with directly,
that is a prayer that they use.
The language of the Zuni
is a very unique language
in that there is no
other Indian tribe that
has any connection
with the Zuni language.
The Zuni is a standalone
language system.
It is determined by the people
that study the languages
and try to connect it
with other Indian tribes,
say, like the Hopi or
the existing Pueblo
tribes around
Albuquerque, New Mexico,
and even clear down to
the Azteco Inca tribes,
and the ethnologists
and the linguists
have never found any connection
to any of the Zuni language.
So it's a standalone
system by itself
as far as the
language is concerned.
>> Do all ancient dialects
go back to the same source,
the sounds of nature, and the
sounds of the universe itself?
>> But Pleiades-- what took me
some time to understand is that
in a prayer system, they
talk about all the different
directions, not only the
internal part of the Earth,
the different directions, the
six directions of the Earth,
boundaries up and down the east
and west, and north and south,
and so on.
And when they start giving
prayer to those people that are
in the upper world, it starts
out with what the Zunis refer
to as the [INAUDIBLE],, and
they're referred to as priests
or gods--
the [INAUDIBLE],,
then the next one
is the Moon and the Sun, the
Big Dipper, and as it goes up,
then it talks about seven.
The seven took me a
long time to figure out.
That was referring to Pleiades.
Pleiades having that seventh
star group, or whatever
it is, and then above that is
the supernova, the supernova
group.
And depending on the specific
functions of the medicine order
society, then again it expands
into other star systems
and also certain stars or
planets in the universe,
depending on what their
specific order is over there
or their medicine group is.
And those are kept pretty well
secret among those societies.
The Zuni, even though their
medicine orders are the same,
the specific groups have
their own references
and sometimes we don't
know what the other society
references are.
But in the case of Pleiades,
it's very specific.
>> That's incredible.
So you're saying the elders
could talk to gods or goddesses
from different star systems.
>> Yes.
>> The Ancient Hebrew name of
God is a name that cannot be
uttered or heard by the human
ear because it has no vowels
to move air through it.
The name literally cannot be
uttered or heard by the human
ear, and as vowels
are introduced to it,
the phonetics of the letters
YHWH produces sounds so low
in frequency it cannot be heard.
The sound of the
Sun was considered
by most ancient religions
as the most sacred sound
of the universe.
It is a sound that cannot
be heard by the human ear
because the human ear only hears
between 20 and 20,000 hertz .
The sound of the Sun is
much lower in frequency
and also much higher in
frequency than we can hear.
Could the sound of the Sun be
part of the universal language
system?
NASA has recorded the actual
sound of the Sun in deep space
and compressed the
inaudible waves so
that human ears can hear it.
If we listen to the sound,
we can hear and feel
a deep vibration.
The sound of the
Sun recorded by NASA
is precisely as
the ancient Hindus
had described it in the
Vedas thousands of years ago.
It is a mantra that can be
intoned with human speed
as "om."
In the sixth century
BC, Pythagoras also
heard the sound of the
Sun and described it
as a deep resonant hum with
higher frequencies blended
into it.
How did the ancient
Hindus know this mantra
if it could not be
heard by the human ear?
Could they have actually
peered into the universal
consciousness and perceived it?
As human language and the
language of nature cannot
travel faster than the speed
of sound as a sound wave,
language as information can
travel at the speed of light
and beyond by entangling
itself on more subtle energies.
In the same way that we can send
human voices our music on radio
waves at the speed of light,
we can send our own dialogue,
personal energy
signature, and information
through our own
biophoton light emissions
at the speed of light.
While the speed of light is
useful to communicate within
the solar system, it cannot
take us far beyond it in any
reasonable amount of time.
In this way, biophoton
emissions are limited,
while more subtle
bioenergies are not.
Dr. Tiller's discovery
of the psychic force
as subtle energies emanating
from the human body
of consciousness demonstrates
how our personal information
can travel on subtle
energy frequencies
at the speed of light
squared, cubed, and beyond.
>> OK.
In my modeling,
which I developed
from a deep meditative
state in the early 1970s--
the model that eventually
appeared to me,
which I wrote down in my first
psychoenergetic book, which
I didn't publish
for about 30 years.
That was in 1997.
And that was "Science
and Human Transformation:
Subtle Energies, Intentionality,
and Consciousness."
So in that, I draw
a Minkowski diagram
with the standard
cone kind of thing,
but there were several
cones where the events occur
inside the normal
light cone of Minkowski
as the coordinates
of distance and time.
The limitation of
the walls on the cone
is velocity of light c.
The next one, the limits, which
is the magnetic information
wave domain, is c square.
The next one, which is the
motion domain, is c cubed.
And the next one at the mind
domain, c to the fourth.
And beyond that-- spirit.
So again, until you
can make measurements,
we will not be able to
check these kinds of things.
But they're internally
self-consistent with a variety
of stuff, and they give us
a lot of hope and optimism
that if we will ever
get out of this box
that orthodox science
is stuck in, then
they will have a marvelous,
marvelous adventure in learning
more about nature.
>> Is the power of meditation
so profound that we can expand
our consciousness into the
cosmos and perceive the actual
sound of the Sun
and the universe?
>> One of the fascinating things
about psychic phenomena is that
they seem to travel
much faster than light.
And a piece of evidence to
back that up-- and there are
actually now several
experiments-- but the first one
that I learned about was
by a Russian scientist
named Potchivian.
Probably back in the
early '60s, I believe,
he was working with acupuncture
and measuring the voltages
on the acupoints on the body.
Acupuncture, as you know,
there are certain points
on the body that the Chinese
medicine stipulates has
certain electrical properties.
As Potchivian was
measuring the voltages,
he saw a curious spike
in them and wondered what
the cause of the spike was.
Later, he learned there had
been a solar flare at the moment
that he saw this voltage spike.
What was strange is that the
spike occurred 8.3 minutes
before we would be able
to see that solar flare
because light travels
at a limited speed.
It takes 8.3 minutes for
light to get from the Sun
to the Earth.
But his spikes showed
up instantaneously.
So this is the first
evidence that there
is something that travels
much faster than light that
affects the body and affects
the acupuncture system,
and we can measure
it physically.
Since then, the Russians
have done a lot of work
on what they call torsion,
which is their version
of the same psychic force.
And they do find there's
an element of that that
does travel much faster
than light so that now
even telescopes
have been devised
which can measure this energy.
And they show that that signal
does travel faster than light.
So this is, again, another
revolutionary aspect of physics
that most Western scientists
are just ignoring,
but it's really important.
>> Our bodies are made
of about 90% plus water,
which is hydrogen, oxygen, and
we're also made of minerals
and carbon.
The Sun is made of over
90% hydrogen, trace oxygen,
and trace minerals, and helium.
It's made of almost
the same stuff we are.
So inversely, if
the Sun can send us
telepathic messages faster
than the speed of light,
we can send the Sun
telepathic messages faster
than the speed of light.
And what that means is every
11 years, according to NASA,
we come into solar
maximums where
solar flares are a potential
threat to our planet.
If we can learn to pray and talk
to the Sun as a living being,
not as a god, not as
the god of creation,
but if we can talk to the
Sun as a living being,
can we collectively, with
billions of minds together,
ask the Sun to calm itself,
to harmonize itself with us
and not to harm us?
Can we do that?
Are our collective
minds that powerful?
>> If we consider Dr.
Tiller's model once again,
realizing that consciousness
is operating in a domain beyond
the gamma ray spectrum,
consciousness has the power
to create a universe.
Considering a short,
10-second gamma ray burst
from a supernova will release
more energy than our Sun
will in its entire
multi-billion year lifetime,
consciousness in the
magnetoelectric spectrum
and beyond is even more
powerful than that.
If we could access this
through coherent awareness,
we could become like
gods and goddesses.
>> To me, we are all spirits
having a physical experience
as we ride the river
of life together.
Our spiritual parents dressed
us in these bio bodysuits,
put us in this playpen
that we call a universe,
in order to grow in
coherence, in order
to develop our gifts
of intentionality,
and in order to become what
we were intended to become--
co-creators with our
spiritual parents.
And co-creator means
to eventually evolve
into the place where you
could interact with planets
and you could co-create
planets or stars.
So it's in the game,
as far as I see it.
We're not anywhere near
the end of physics,
the theory of everything.
We are just babes
crawling across the floor
of the universe.
We've hardly begun
the great adventure.
And all of these
things are possible.
We manipulate this universe.
That's why it's here for us.
It's our classroom-- no other
way to become co-creators
on this magnificent scale.
But that's in our future
from this planet's level
of activity.
We have to move
and become coherent
at the deeper levels of nature.
>> Using Einstein's equation
of converting frequencies
into mass energy, the
higher the frequency,
the higher the energy.
Any frequency into the
gamma ray spectrum,
the magnetoelectric spectrum
and beyond, coupled with matter,
has the power to create
anything we can imagine,
including the solar system,
the galaxy, and the universe.
>> The coherence at this
level of nature is very good.
I mean, we can make lasers.
We can convert the potential
of a light bulb from 50 watts
to create temperatures 10 times
the surface of the Sun, if you
can make all those
electromagnetic photons
coherent.
But the dimensionality
of the higher dimensions,
just as this one, if you look
at the most coherent aspect
for electromagnetic laser, is
the wavelength of the light
you're dealing with,
so that now if you
go to the next level of the
vacuum magnetic information
wave level, you've
changed the size
scale by 10 orders of magnitude,
and then to the next level
another 10 orders of magnitude,
and the next level another 10
orders of magnitude.
And so to be coherent at those
inner levels, really coherent,
the energy densities are
beyond your imagining.
So it isn't just that it
goes c, c squared, c cubed,
c to the fourth.
The size scale goes
down and down and down.
The wavelength goes
up and up and up.
And the power
ultimately is huge.
So in principle, all of the
things I've talked about
appear to be possible.
>> It is information at this
level of reality that tells
matter what to do.
Consciousness at the
magnetoelectric spectrum
and beyond can also power
a spacecraft at the speed
of light squared and beyond.
Does this give us
a new understanding
and a new vision of God?
"When you make the
two into one, you
will become children of Adam.
And when you say, mountain,
move from here, it will move--"
Jesus, the Gospel of Thomas.
By tapping into just a small
amount of this consciousness,
certainly we could
change the weather
and we could talk to the Sun
to ask it to do anything.
>> Imagine for a moment
if a hurricane was coming
in the future.
But now, instead of what
we're doing with the weather
forecasts, which we're
amplifying the fear
and looking at all the
blowing of the winds and all
the torment zone,
imagined instead
we had millions or billions of
people simultaneously engaged
in an organized, synchronized,
guided imagery over the media,
ascending loving intentions and
calming intentions to a storm,
or even was redirecting
it to a safer environment.
Would we find that the
storm has diminished?
storm might be moved?
Well, we'll never discover
it unless we look for it.
If we don't ask the questions
and we don't try it,
we'll never know whether
it matters or not.
>> The key to talking to
nature is to know its harmonic
language.
When we examine this photo of
ordinary water flash frozen
while it was exposed to
the sound of the Sun,
we can see it transforms from
its ordinary state of disorder
into the most perfect
sacred geometry.
Is there a purpose to the
Sun's sound waves broadcasting
throughout the solar system?
Is it a sort of language?
Does the sound of the Sun bring
order to the nine planets?
Pythagoras discovered
that all of the planets
were producing a
sort of cosmic music
he called the music
of the spheres.
When NASA recorded
the sounds of Saturn,
researchers were in awe--
the sound of Uranus--
the sound of Jupiter--
the sound of the Earth.
When we hear the
sound of the Earth,
we can see it sounds deeply
similar to the sounds of birds
singing.
NASA scientists
were astounded when
they heard the sounds of
the Earth for the first time
because they knew
the birds understood
the secret language of the
universe and the Earth itself.
They were singing as if in a
dialogue with the creation.
When Pythagoras had
finished his studies
into the music of
the planets, he
gave birth to the intervallic
system of modern music,
and thus classical
music was born.
>> Yeah.
The musica
instrumentalis, of course,
is the music we hear people sing
or instruments play, and then
the musica humana,
Pythagoras said, is
our sound, the one that we
create, that humans create.
Now, the musica
mundana is the one
that you're describing
here, and that's
the music of the spheres.
And that music, let's not
think that it has to sound like
music, because really
it can just be a very
out-of-this-world, one-note
sound that sounds like one
note, but actually spreads
out into incredible harmonies.
And the way you reach that
point is truly by meditating
or by going to a place,
hiking to a place,
where you can be by yourself--
if you don't like meditating,
just sitting quietly--
but it is a place that
when you're quiet,
you can't hear these sounds,
these harmonies of the spheres,
you can't hear them unless
you've actually integrated
into your heart center.
It's just not possible
because that's
where the sound comes in.
And so again, the idea
of using your intuition,
your sixth sense, this is what
we're all getting into now.
This whole new
millennium, I believe,
is about activating that again
and combining all the knowledge
we have, letting go of it, and
allowing our hearts to listen
to what's really out there.
And really where it begins--
not so you don't feel like this
is a very complicated process--
where it begins is to
hear your own inner voice.
That's really key is when
you hear yourself giving
the answers, not somebody
outside of yourself,
not the media, not your
husband or wife, your friend,
your family telling
you what to do,
but you actually
tune in to yourself.
And once you start
tuning in, you
have tuned to the
music of the spheres.
The tuning in is what's
necessary to hear
the great cosmic music
that's out there,
which is all about you because
you're part of creation.
You're creating this music.
So tuning in will allow
you to not only hear it,
but also to participate
in it as well.
And again, it
differs for everybody
as to how that happens.
[MUSIC - COLETTE BARON REID,
"MAGDALENE'S GARDEN"]
(SINGING) Now the truth
that she'll be to you
will come and
release you when you
dance in Magdalene's garden.
All the fruits that she'll give
you will open you up and take
you to-- to the dance
in Magdalene's garden--
Magdalene.
Music is, for me, it's a
frequency, it's an energy.
I can hear--
I feel it-- the
emotion of the song.
I actually can sense
the signature of a song
without knowing where
it's coming from.
But it's given to me.
So is it a talent?
Is it an aptitude?
I think I'm a receiver for this.
I receive songs.
And I hear them.
I hear the whole
parts of it too.
So I hear it fully formed.
But my inspiration always
comes with a life experience.
For me, I write songs
about God and humanity.
Those are always
my two subjects--
the sense of separateness
that the human being feels
and how we try to
regain that connection
through relationships, romantic
relationships, and how that--
or things or whatever,
and how it disappoints us,
and that how there
is really only God.
So a lot of my songs,
you can re-listen to them
about healing.
You'll hear me talk about what
sounds like a relationship when
really I'm talking about a
relationship with a higher
power.
But I'm always surprised,
actually, afterwards.
But again, it's
usually something
that I'm thinking about
and I want to speak to,
so I allow this to be
spoken to through the song.
[MUSIC - COLETTE BARON REID,
"FORGIVEN"]
(SINGING) Dripping on
your heart and ghosts
are sticking to your shoes--
I'm not these stains
here on my wings.
Price was right for
these unnatural things.
They make it easier to hide.
>> Jesus spoke the
Lord's Prayer in Aramaic,
a language that is at
least 3,000 years old.
Was this language also
consistent with tonalities
of the hidden
forces of creation?
Was Jesus' intention
combined with Aramaic
language so powerful he could
manifest the loaves and fishes
needed to feed the masses?
The shape of a fish in
geometry is the vesica pisces,
formed when two circles
of the same diameter
cross one another.
The ratio of a vesica
pisces, width to its height,
is 153 to 265, or
the square root of 3,
the number of the trinity.
In the Gospel of John 2:1-11,
Jesus caught 153 fish at a time
when the disciples could
not catch a single one.
The question is,
why is the number
153 in code with the creation
of the shape of a fish?
Was Jesus speaking in a
harmonic code language
to manifest the
loaves and fishes?
Did he know the secret
language of creation itself?
>> People ask me all the
time, what is divine dialogue,
and who are you talking to?
Now, it really depends
on what you believe.
There's a friend of
mine who believes
that Jesus comes to him.
As a matter of fact,
it's you, David.
I don't do Jesus like that.
It's like, my belief--
oh, and another friend of mine
is a devout Roman Catholic
and an extraordinary medium.
And they believe they're
talking to Mother Mary.
So I believe that the
consciousness of those
avatars, if you will,
the consciousness
of those extraordinary beings--
who even knows if they
were human or not, right?
I mean, we don't know.
But that is living and
we can tap into that.
But it sure isn't in us.
I can say that that information
can come through me.
So is this the white
guy god in the sky?
Well, I'm going to say, no way.
But am I right about that?
Well, I don't know.
I don't know that.
But I do believe that there
is an extraordinary matrix
of creativity, a
living consciousness,
a divine intelligence, that
I don't know what it is.
And I can only understand
that intelligence
to a subjective experience
when I have that genius moment
and I know it
doesn't come from me.
And the other thing,
too, is that there are so
many studies now that
are trying to find that.
What is God?
What is the great
organizing designer?
We really need to step
out of our language,
is what I think we have to
do, and forget our labels.
The past can't tell us this,
because as a matter of fact,
the past is always talking
about the people who
tried to figure it out then.
And so that's their
version of it.
And it's outmoded now.
We have to find new ways.
Look at nature.
you hold a rose.
Can you make one?
No.
Who made that?
You can't tell me it's just
a gene or a DNA strand.
I don't buy that.
And if it is, what informs that?
What is the environment
that informs
one thing to be one thing
and one thing to another?
And where does
consciousness come from?
And how are we born?
Do we come from other planets?
I think any of that is possible.
But to answer someone when
they say, what is God,
well, God to me is a divining,
organizing intelligence,
creative intelligence,
that houses,
if you will, the individuated
intelligences of those who
have come before us, like
Buddha, like Christ, like
whoever you can
think of, all these--
like Einstein.
I mean, being able to come
up with a lost mathematical
equation when I don't even
know how to count-- come on,
that's pretty wild.
>> The HeartMath Institute's
Global Coherence Initiative
uses scientific technology
to perceive electromagnetic
changes in the Earth's
ionosphere that are coherent
with global human consciousness.
Because the human heart produces
electromagnetic energies
and even more powerful
subtle energies,
millions or even billions
of human hearts experiencing
profound emotions due
to global coherence
initiatives, or global events,
will cause measurable changes
in the Earth's
ionosphere to appear.
These changes will prove
to science and the world
the power of human emotions
on a global and cosmic scale.
>> Our researchers in a team
that they've assembled are
building what's called the
Global Coherence Monitoring
System.
This is a system
that's being made up
of very sensitive sensors that
measure changes in the Earth's
ionosphere.
The ionosphere is the
Earth's protective layer
around the Earth.
And these sensors can
measure very subtle changes
in the ionosphere.
The goal is, over the
next two to three years,
maybe a little longer depending
on how fast the project moves,
is we want to put between
50 and 100 of these sensors
around the globe, have
them all network back
to a central location, and be
able to get a complete picture
of the ionosphere 24/7.
Our belief is that when there
are large numbers of people
feeling similar motions, mass
emotional output, that that
could be detectable
in the ionosphere.
We know from other research--
like Dr. Roger Nelson
in the Global
Consciousness Project,
using random number
generators, showing changes
in these random
number generators when
this strong emotionality
occurring in the world,
like at 9/11.
There's other
indicators that show
that there are possible
measurable changes that
occur when large numbers of
people are feeling something.
We want to conduct
experiments on the effect
of positive emotional
states being
generated by large numbers of
people on the Earth itself.
In a sense, sort
of metaphorically
what we're attempting to do
is to measure the brain waves
and heart rhythms of
the planet itself.
>> By engaging our consciousness
collectively into the global
media and buying into the
violence and the fear and all
of the sensationalism,
collectively with six billion
minds on the planet we are
transmitting consciousness
and reinforcing that delusion.
We're giving it more energy.
We're telling it
to maintain itself.
And possibly,
scientific researchers
are finding that our
consciousness is actually
cooperatively
responsible for all this
because consciousness is far
more powerful than we can even
imagine.
>> The best example I see to
explain it is like the movie
"Catch Me If You Can" where
Leonardo DiCaprio hides himself
around 10 beautiful girls,
and the cops are all looking
at the beautiful girls,
and so he gets to sneak
by, and that's kind of--
we're completely
being distracted
while these other
agendas are going on.
And also, it's putting
us down constantly.
It's saying, I'm better than
you, and just a lot of biasness
as well.
And it's kind of sad that
we're giving a lot of our time
to watching TV and speaking
as opposed to action
and being the change out in the
world because the TV is always
going to report
about celebrities
and what's going on in Hollywood
and news, which is only 2%
of the world is really negative,
and they're just focusing
and amplifying on that.
So it makes it worse
than it actually is.
And particularly if we know
our thoughts create reality,
if you have millions of people
seeing these images, what's
it doing to our world and our
psyche on a collective level?
>> You asked the bigger
field a question,
and it feeds you the answer.
>> Absolutely.
Absolutely.
But the question
should be very precise.
You can't answer questions--
oh, what does it mean, universe?
What does it mean, God?
It will be no answer.
But if you give
precise question, then
you will get precise answer.
And then if you
operate in some area,
meditation will give you
what you want by itself.
>> Through the practice
of meditation, prayer,
and insight, we can expand
our minds and consciousness
into the nine levels of the
universal field of the angelic
kingdoms of God.
The fields contain all
knowledge, all memories,
and all possibilities.
All we have to do is
access them with our minds.
They have always
been there to serve
humanity and the universal
knowledge and presence.
Science is telling us that
the nine dimensional fields
are perceptible to the
mathematics of string theory.
Science now realizes
that there is
a creative force in the
universe that is intelligent,
that it responds
to our questions,
it gives us
creativity and insight
as its intelligent answer.
With these gifts that enter
the mind, body, and soul,
we can transform our world.
With this new understanding
of physics and consciousness,
we can revolutionize our
understanding of God.
We don't have to forget
what we already know
and what we have learned
from the past about God,
but we do have to move
forward and partake of what
we don't know and learn more.
If more of us can create
an intelligent dialogue
with a conscious
universe, we might
see more genius-level solutions
to disease, suffering, war,
architecture, banking,
and global politics.
We might even be able to
conquer the limitations
of fossil fuels, global climate
change, and the ecology.
If we can discover anti-gravity
and the secret to limitless
zero-point energy, we might
see a golden space age
where we will look
back at our old ideas
and wonder why it took us so
long to build a global space
presence and enter the galactic
community of life beyond Earth.
From there, the conversation can
conquer the galaxy and beyond.
[MUSIC PLAYING]